majority of your website visitors will
never ever turn into an inbound lead or
customer
so what can you do about it
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out our weekly
email where we share actual marketing
tips
useful podcasts free guides bonus
resources much much more every monday to
start your week off with a bang sign up
today over at businessgrowth.email
according to wordstream a good website
conversion rate is between two
and five percent this means a whopping
95 or more of the visitors you get to
your website will never ever convert
into a sale
or an inbound lead and if you're
marketing your website if you're
spending your hard earned cash or time
on doing things like seo google ads
maybe facebook ads email marketing
social media marketing all that other
good stuff it means a massive chunk of
those visitors will never turn into an
inquiry i'm going to share what you can
do to up those conversion numbers
and turn more visits
into revenue the first thing you can do
is you can set up some kind of lead
magnet on your website so a lead magnet
is typically an exchange whereby the
visitor will share usually their name an
email address maybe a few more details
in exchange for a valuable item so this
could be anything from a guide so you
might have a really useful guide like
the top 10 tips to achieve x or five
best ways to achieve why that are really
useful helpful informative pieces of
content that people can download a guide
and they'll share their email perhaps
you've got a video series so you've got
kind of 10 top strategies to do a or
step-by-step process to do b something
really useful so someone shares their
email and they get a video guide so
something basically where the customer
or the prospect rather exchanges their
email address and in return you give
them a useful piece of content and that
way they've not left your website
without giving you some kind of details
and you can add them to your email list
the second thing you can do is have
useful resources on your website so
perhaps you've got a resources tab or a
knowledge base hub tab or something
similar maybe that's a drop down menu on
your site and maybe it's got blog
articles maybe it's got video guides
maybe it's got podcasts and a bunch of
other helpful tips resources educational
sections on your site ranging from
articles videos podcasts and much much
more they're ungated they don't require
an email address so it's more of a
long-term play so whereby customers can
educate themselves on your sector learn
about the how to's and it's also going
to help your seo because if people are
searching for certain ideas like how to
do x or best way to do y or
how to compare a against b
it means your website could rank for
that with the useful content or article
and it also means that long term it's
going to give people more affinity to
your brand because you were the one that
educated them that helped them that was
a knowledgeable helpful resource so when
they do need your service they're more
likely to come back to you and next up
we have webinars so especially since the
pandemic these have been huge with the
rise of virtual marketing virtual
selling less face-to-face
webinars have been a massive hit so what
you can do is produce really educational
content whether that is live webinars or
recorded webinars whereby you're putting
something you know that your customers
your prospects are going to be
interested in so perhaps it's covering
common questions around your industry
that you get asked each and every day
and you've decided to summarize it in a
40 minute or one hour webinar and you're
going to cover off the best the most
juiciest questions that prospects want
to know about and in return you ask for
an email address so much like a lead
magnet you can get their name perhaps an
email and then start remarketing to them
signing them up to your email list
sending them useful guides and prompting
them over time to get in touch with you
at number four we have retargeting so
this is something that's massively
forgotten by businesses because a lot of
us are spending either our own time or
our money perhaps you're spending money
on google ads so when someone's
searching for your product you're
offering your service you come up top in
the ads on google and they click through
onto your site maybe you're doing seo so
you come up top on google in the organic
search maybe like we talked about
earlier doing email marketing social
media marketing so you're spending this
time and money driving people to your
site but what if they don't convert
straight away this is where remarketing
kicks in so you can do this view via
facebook you can remark it to your
website traffic you can do it through
linkedin ads remarketing there you can
remark on google and what you can do is
share things like case studies
testimonials customer stories
transformations to build trusts when
people see these remarketing ads on
whatever channels you put them on then
over time it's reminder of your company
it's sharing useful tips so when they
are ready they can click the ad and then
come back to your website so you don't
lose them and then give you a chance to
get that demo request or get that lead
or get that inquiry or sale so you need
to make sure depending on what channel
you want to remarket to you install the
relevant pixel whether that's the
facebook pixel the linkedin retargeting
pixel or the google ads pixel so then
you can remark on those channels so if
you don't get the conversion straight
away you can get those ads in front of
people over time delivering that value
delivering that useful educational
insights so when they're ready they'll
get back in touch with you and the fifth
and final point is to make it as clear
as possible on what people actually get
from your offering or the problem that
you solve so as soon as someone lands on
your website home page right in the top
banner the top hero area your value
proposition your headline shares exactly
what you do
how it helps your customers and guides
them to get in touch so maybe you lead
with the problem you fix that most
people come to you with or you lead with
the benefits that you bring to people or
you even compare what many companies in
your industry do poorly and how you're
different
and then from there having clear and
compelling call to actions and having
them consistently on your site so
perhaps in your top menu navigation area
you've got your book a demo in the top
right corner and maybe you've got a
click to call as well and likewise on
your mobile view you've got the clear
call to action so people can easily call
you or book that demo and as people
scroll down through your information
pages you've got the same consistent
call to actions making it really easy no
matter what part of your site someone's
on they can see that section they can
see that call to action so book your
tailored demo or book my strategy call
so you don't have to waste calories burn
calories burn time clicking all the way
through your navigation to find your
contact page no matter what section of
your site what piece of content they're
consuming or what page they're on
there's clear call to actions to either
email call perhaps you've got a chat bot
or just clicking that option to book the
demo or book the call so essentially
making your website nice and clear nice
and organized and making it as simple as
possible for prospects to get the job
done and speak to your sales team
and there you have it i hope these quick
tips on how you can encourage more
conversions and most importantly more
sales leads and revenue to your team
from your website has been of use as
always if you enjoyed today's episode a
quick rating on your podcast channel
it's very much appreciated or if you're
on youtube a quick subscribe i'd be very
thankful for and with that i should
catch you on the next one cheers